.\" Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by Daniel Ritz <daniel.ritz@gmx.ch>
.\"
.TH PCCARDCTL 8 "2005/10/22" "pcmciautils"
.SH NAME
pccardctl \- PCMCIA card control utility
.br
lspcmcia \- display extended PCMCIA debugging information

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpccardctl\fR [\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-v ...\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIsocket\fR]
.br
\fBlspcmcia\fR [\fB\-V\fR] [\fB\-v ...\fR] [\fIsocket\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpccardctl\fR is used to monitor and control the state of PCMCIA
sockets.  If a socket number is specified, the command will be applied
to just one socket; otherwise, all sockets will be affected.
.PP
If \fBpccardctl\fR is executed by root, all commands are available.  If
it is executed by an unpriviledged user, only the informational
commands are accessible.
.PP
\fBlspcmcia\fR is an alias for \fBpccardctl ls\fR, provided for convenience.
.PP

.SH COMMANDS
.TP \w'abcd'u
.B status
Display the current socket status flags.
.TP
.B config
Display the socket configuration, including power settings, interrupt
and I/O window settings, and configuration registers.
\-\-not yet implemented
.TP
.B ident
Display card identification information, including product
identification strings, manufacturer ID codes, and function ID codes.
Not yet implemented for cardbus cards. Use lspci instead.
.TP
.B info
Much like the \fBident\fR command, but its output is formatted as a
series of Bourne-stype shell variable definitions for use in scripts.
Not yet implemented for cardbus cards.
.TP
.B ls
Display extended debugging information about the PCMCIA sockets and
devices present in the system.
.TP
.B suspend
Shut down and then disable power for a socket.
.TP
.B resume
Restore power to a socket, and re-configure for use.
.TP
.TP
.B eject
Notify all client drivers that this card will be ejected, then cut
power to the socket.
.TP
.B insert
Notify all client drivers that this card has just been inserted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Increase the verbosity of the
.B ls
command.
Giving this option twice increases verbosity further.

.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Ritz \- daniel.ritz@gmx.ch
.br
based upon the original cardctl man page by
.br
David Hinds \- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
