'\" t
.\" @(#)lilo.8 1.0 950728 aeb
.\" This page is based on the lilo docs, which carry the following
.\" COPYING condition:
.\"
.\" LILO program code, documentation and auxiliary programs are
.\" Copyright 1992-1998 Werner Almesberger.
.\" Extensions to LILO, documentation and auxiliary programs are
.\" Copyright 1999-2001 John Coffman.
.\" All rights reserved by the respective copyright holders.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of parts of or the
.\" whole original or derived work are permitted provided that the
.\" original work is properly attributed to the author. The name of the
.\" author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\" this software without specific prior written permission. This work
.\" is provided "as is" and without any express or implied warranties.
.\"
.\" Original version, Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl), 950728
.\" Added t directive, as Daniel Quinlan asked, 950824
.\" Added L switch, John Coffman, 991118
.\" Added T switch, John Coffman, 001001
.\" Added p switch, John Coffman, 010402
.\" Added x switch, John Coffman, 010409
.\" Added A switch, John Coffman, 010417
.\" Added M switch, John Coffman, 010417
.\" Added g switch, John Coffman, 010526
.\" Added z switch, John Coffman, 010829
.\"
.TH LILO 8 "31 Oct 2001"
.SH NAME
lilo \- install boot loader
.SH SYNOPSIS
Main function:
.LP
.B " /sbin/lilo"
\- install boot loader
.LP
Auxiliary uses:
.LP
.B " /sbin/lilo -q"
\- query map
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -R"
\- set default command line for next reboot
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -I"
\- inquire path name of current kernel
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -A"
\- activate a partition / show active partition
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -M [-z]"
\- write a Master Boot Record on a device
\- or clear the device serial number
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -T"
\- tell more about specified topic
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo {-u|-U}"
\- uninstall lilo
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B lilo
installs a boot loader that will be activated next time you boot.
It has lots of options.
.LP
.TP
.BI "\-\^A " "master-device [ N ]"
Inquire of active partition on device
.IR master-device ;
e.g., "/dev/hda".  With a number in the range 1 to 4, activate the specified
partition on the master device.
.TP
.BI "\-\^b " bootdev
Specify the boot device; i.e., where the boot loader will be installed.
"-b /dev/hda" specifies the Master Boot Record; "-b /dev/sdb5" specifies
the first extended partition on the second SCSI disk.
.TP
.B "\-\^c"
Enable map compaction. This will merge read requests from adjacent
sectors. Speeds up the booting (especially from floppy).
.TP
.BI "\-\^C " config-file
.B lilo
reads its instructions about what files to map from the specified
configuration file.  This option overrides the use of the default config
file,
.IR "/etc/lilo.conf" .
.TP
.BI "\-\^d " delay
Specifies the delay time in tenths of a second (20 = 2 sec) before
automatically booting the first image.  Gives you time to interrupt the
automatic boot process with Shift, Alt, Ctrl, ScrollLock, or CapsLock.  If
interrupted, the `boot:' prompt is displayed.  This switch is overriden by
the appearance of
.I prompt
in the config-file.
.TP
.BI "\-\^D " label
Use the kernel with the given label, instead of the first one
in the list, as the default kernel to boot.
.TP
.BI "\-\^f " disk-tab
Specify disk geometry parameter file. (The default is
.IR /etc/disktab .)
.TP
.BI "\-\^g"
Generate sector/head/cylinder (geometric) disk addresses.  Limited to
cylinders up to 1023.  Forces compatibility with older versions of LILO.
.TP
.BI "\-\^i " boot-loader
Specify a file to be used as the new boot loader. (The default is
.IR /boot/boot.b .)
.TP
.BI "\-\^I " "label" "\[i|r\]"
The label of the running kernel can be found in the environment
variable BOOT_IMAGE after startup, or in the pseudo-file `/proc/cmdline'.
This command will print path name of the corresponding kernel file, or of
any initial ramdisk file ("i" or "r" option).
.TP
.BI "\-\^l"
Generate 24-bit linear sector addresses instead of sector/head/cylinder
addresses.
.TP
.BI "\-\^L"
Generate 32-bit Logical Block Addresses instead of C:H:S addresses, allowing
access to all partitions on disks with more than 1024 cylinders.
.TP
.BI "\-\^m " map-file
Use specified map file instead of the default.
.TP
.BI "\-\^M " "master-device [ mbr-file ]"
Install a Master Boot Record on the device specified as
.IR master-device .
The new MBR is copied by default from "/boot/mbr.b", unless a specific
file is named as the second argument.  The primary partition table on
.I master-device
is undistrubed.  If no device serial number is present, then generate one
and write it to the MBR.
.TP
.BI "\-\^p"
Require interactive entry of all passwords specified as
.B """""" 
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-\^P " "{fix|ignore}"
Fix (or ignore) `corrupt' partition tables, i.e., partition tables
with linear and sector/head/cylinder addresses that do not correspond.
.TP
.B \-\^q
List the currently mapped files.
.B lilo
maintains a file, by default
.IR "/boot/map" ,
containing the name and location of the kernel(s) to boot.
This option will list the names therein.  Use with \fB-v\fP for
more detailed information about the installed boot loader.
.TP
.BI "\-\^r " root-directory
Before doing anything else, do a \fIchroot\fP to the indicated
directory. The new root directory must contain a
.I /dev
directory, and may need a
.I /boot
directory. It may also need an
.IR /etc/lilo.conf " file."

Used by the
.I mkbootdisk
shell script for creating a bootable floppy.
.TP
.BI "\-\^R " "command line"
This option sets the default command for the boot loader the next
time it executes. The boot loader will then erase this line: this
is a once-only command. It is typically used in reboot scripts,
just before calling `shutdown -r'.  Used without any arguments, it will
cancel a \fIlock\fP-ed or \fIfallback\fP command line.
.TP
.BI "\-\^s " save-file
When
.B lilo
overwrites the boot sector, it preserves the old contents in
a file, by default
.I /boot/boot.NNNN
where NNNN depends on the device. This option specifies an
alternate save file for the boot sector. (Or, together with the
\fB-u\fP option, specifies from where to restore the boot sector.)
.TP
.BI "\-\^S " save-file
Normally,
.B lilo
will not overwrite an existing save file. This options says
that overwriting is allowed.
.TP
.BI "\-\^t "
Test only. Do not really write a new boot sector or map file.
Use together with \fB-v\fP to find out what
.B lilo
is about to do.
.TP
.BI "\-\^T " option
Print out system information, some of it extracted from the system
bios.  This is more convenient than booting the LILO diagnostic
floppy on problem systems.
.I option
may be any one of the following:
.IP
.nf
   help  - print a list of available diagnostics
   ChRul - list the partition types subject to
           Change-Rules
   EBDA  - list Extended BIOS Data Area information
   geom=<drive> list drive geometry for bios drive;
           e.g., geom=0x80
   geom  - list drive geometry for all drives
   table=<drive> list the primary partition table;
           e.g., table=/dev/sda
   video - list graphic modes available to boot
           loader
.fi
.TP
.BI "\-\^u " [device-name]
Uninstall \fIlilo\fP by copying the saved boot sector back.
The '-s' and '-C' switches may be used with this option.
The \fIdevice-name\fP is optional.  A time-stamp is checked.
.TP
.BI "\-\^U " [device-name]
Idem, but do not check the time-stamp.
.TP
.B "\-\^v"
Increase verbosity. Giving one to five \fB-v\fP options
will make lilo more verbose, or use, \fB-v\fP \fIn\fP (n=1..5) to
set verbosity level '\fIn\fP'.
.TP
.B "\-\^V"
Print version number.
.TP
.B "\-\^w"
Suppress warning messages.
.TP
.BI "\-\^x " option
For RAID installations only.  The option may be any of the keywords
.IR none ,
.IR auto ,
.IR mbr-only ,
or a comma separated list of additional boot devices (no spaces allowed in
the list).
.TP
.B "\-\^z"
When used with the -M switch, clears the device serial number.  Usually used
in the following sequence to generate a new device serial number:
.nf
     lilo -z -M /dev/hda
     lilo -M /dev/hda
.fi
.br
.LP
The above command line options correspond to the key words
in the config file indicated below.
.IP
.TS
l l.
-b bootdev	boot=bootdev
-c	compact
-d dsec	delay=dsec
-D label	default=label
-i boot-loader	install=boot-loader
-f file	disktab=file
-g	geometric
-l	linear
-L	lba32
-m mapfile	map=mapfile
-P fix	fix-table
-P ignore	ignore-table
-s file	backup=file
-S file	force-backup=file
-v [N]	verbose=level
-w	nowarn
-x option	raid-extra-boot=option
.TE
.SH "BOOT OPTIONS"
The options described here may be specified at on the command line when a
kernel image is booted.  These options are processed by LILO, and are
removed from the command line passed to the kernel, unless otherwise noted.
.LP
.TP
.BI lock
Locks the command line, as though 'lock' had been specified in 'lilo.conf.'
.TP
.BI "mem=###[,K,M]"
Specifies the maximum memory in the system in bytes, kilobytes, or megabytes.
This option is not removed from the command line, and is always passed to
the kernel.
.TP
.BI nobd
Suppresses collection of BIOS data.  This option is reserved for use with
non-IBM-compliant BIOS's which hang up with an "s" at the end of the line:
.nf
     Loading.........s
.fi
.TP
.BI "vga=[ASK,EXT,EXTENDED,NORMAL]"
Allows overriding the default video mode upon kernel startup.
.br
.SH INCOMPATIBILITIES
.B lilo
is known to have problems with the
.I reiserfs
introduced with the 2.2.x kernels, unless the file system is
mounted with the 'notail' option.  This incompatibilty has been
resolved with reiserfs 3.6.18 and lilo 21.6.
.sp
Beginning with version 22.0, RAID installations write the boot record to
the RAID partition. Conditional writing of MBRs may occur to aid in making
the RAID set bootable in a recovery situation, but all default actions may
be overridden. Action similar to previous versions is
achieved using the `-x mbr-only' switch.
.SH BUGS
Configuration file options `backup' and `force-backup' are not yet correctly
implemented for RAID installations. Use of the default boot record backup
mechanism seems to work okay, and should be used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fdisk(8), lilo.conf(5), mkrescue(8), mkinitrd(8).
.sp
The lilo distribution comes with very extensive documentation.
(lilo 22.1)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Werner Almesberger <almesber@lrc.epfl.ch> (to ver.21)
.br
John Coffman <johninsd@san.rr.com> (21.2 & later)
