'\" t
.\" @(#)mkrescue.8 1.0 20011031 jrc
.\" This page is part of the LILO package, which is released by
.\" the author(s) under a BSD license.  See the file COPYING
.\" in the LILO source directory for the License and Disclaimer.
.\"
.\" Original version, John Coffman 011031
.\"
.TH MKRESCUE 8 "31 Oct 2001"
.SH NAME
mkrescue \- make rescue floppy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B "/sbin/mkrescue"
\- make a bootable rescue floppy using the existing kernel and any initial
ramdisk.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B mkrescue
assumes that the present running system was successfully booted using the
.B lilo
boot loader, and that the specification for the kernel and any initial
ramdisk are in \fB/etc/lilo.conf\fP. This command will make a bootable
1.44M rescue floppy which uses the
current kernel, any initial ramdisk, and the "current" root directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.BI "--device <device>"
Make the floppy on a device other than /dev/fd0.  The floppy disk will
always be made to boot on BIOS device code 0x00 (A: drive), without
regard to the drive on which it is created.
.TP
.BI "--fast"
Use a faster method of creating the boot floppy.  This involves first
creating a 1.44M file mounted using a loopback device, then copying
the file to the disk.  Currently, loopback device 'loop4' must be free for
this option to be used.
.TP
.BI "--fs [ ext2 | msdos | minix ]"
Specify the type of filesystem to create on the drive.
.B ext2
is the default, but "msdos" and "minix" allow slightly more disk sectors
for really big kernels.
.TP
.BI "--help"
Print a short usage synopsis, including a list of command options.
.TP
.BI "--initrd <filepath>" "  and  " "--kernel <filepath>"
These options, which must be used together, allow specification of an
arbitrary kernel file and initial ramdisk file to be used on the created
boot floppy.  Be sure you know what you are doing before you use these
options.
.TP
.BI "--nocompact"
For faster kernel loading from a floppy, LILO map compaction is normally
enabled. This option will disable map compaction by omitting the
lilo "-c" switch.
.TP
.BI "--noformat"
Suppresses creation of a new filesystem on the boot floppy. This option may
be used
.B only
when you know that the floppy you will be writing upon is formatted with the
same filesystem as specified by "--fs XXX" (default is ext2).
.TP
.BI "--root <device>"
Specify the root filesystem for the kernel on the boot floppy. The currently
mounted root is the default, if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI "--version"
Print the version number of 'mkrescue', then terminate.
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lilo(8), lilo.conf(5), mkfs(8), dd(1), mount(8), mkinitrd(8).
.SH "AUTHOR"
John Coffman <johninsd@san.rr.com> (1.0)
