#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass docbook
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language french
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

LINPHONE 'S USER MANUAL
\layout Author

Simon Morlat
\layout Date

July, 24th 2004
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

Linphone is a simple web-phone.
 It allows you to make two party-calls using an IP network like the internet.
 What you need to run Linphone is :
\layout Itemize

Linux 
\layout Itemize

Gnome >=2.4 with gtk+>=2.4, to use the graphical interface (higly recommended!)
\layout Itemize

a sound card correctly configured enabled by alsa drivers.
\layout Itemize

headphones or speakers.
\layout Itemize

a microphone
\layout Itemize

a connection to a network (the Internet for example), using a modem, an
 ethernet card or anything.
\layout Standard

You should close any application that is using the audio device before running
 linphone.
 
\layout Standard

Linphone is free, it is released under 
\emph on 
GNU Public License
\emph default 
.
\layout Standard


\emph on 
WARNING: This software is provided with NO WARRANTY see file COPYING for
 details.
 This means you SHOULD NOT use linphone for confidential conversations:
 there is NO encryption, so it is easy for any bad-intentionned person to
 catch audio streams.
 Note also that it is not recommended to run Linphone as root.
\layout Section

Running linphone
\layout Standard

Linphone can be run as three different ways:
\layout Itemize

as normal application: in the gnome menu, linphone should appear in network
 sub-menu.
 If you are not running gnome, you can execute linphone by typing linphone
 in a terminal, for example.
 When linphone is not running, you cannot receive calls.
\layout Itemize

as a gnome applet: by clicking on the gnome panel with the right button,
 add the applet.
 Linphone appears in the network menu.
 By running silently in the panel, linphone is able to receive calls even
 if its window is not shown.
 If you want the main window to appear, click on the applet.
 When a call arrives, the main window is shown and you will hear the ring
 normally.
\layout Section

Making a call
\layout Subsection

Basic principles
\layout Standard

Linphone uses the Session Initiation Protocol to establish the connection
 with a remote host.
 In this protocol each caller or callee is identified by a SIP url: sip:user_nam
e@host_name.
 A sip url is very closed in syntax to an email address, excepted the 
\begin_inset Quotes sld
\end_inset 

sip:
\begin_inset Quotes sld
\end_inset 

 prefix.
\layout Standard

User_name is like a login name on an Unix machine, and host_name is the
 name or the IP address of the machine the user can be joined.
\layout Standard

Note that Sip is a new telecommunication protocol designed to be simple,
 and it is not compatible with H323 at all.
\layout Subsection

When IP address are not static
\layout Standard

For that purpose, you can register to a sip proxy.
 There exists several sip proxies on the net, for example see http://iptel.org,
 it's free.
 You'll just need to get an account on the proxy and then tell to linphone
 to use it.
 
\layout Subsection

test trial: you have no friends to call at the moment (because it is too
 late for example), but would like to know if linphone really works
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sipomatic}

\end_inset 

Since version 0.3.0, linphone comes with a test program called '
\emph on 
sipomatic
\emph default 
'.
 Sipomatic can answer automatically to calls from linphone.
 To do this:
\layout Itemize

run sipomatic from a terminal.
 Dont't be surprised, sipomatic does not have a graphical interface, but
 you don't have to interact with it.
 
\layout Itemize

Then type the following sip url in the main window of linphone: sip:robot@127.0.0.1
:5064 .
 127.0.0.1 is a local address for your computer, and robot is the name to use
 for calling sipomatic.
 5064 is the port where sipomatic can be joined.
 Normally you should always use 5060 (i.e the default port when no port is
 specified) to call somebody, but sipomatic is the exception: it runs on
 port 5064.
 The reason for this is that linphone already runs on 5060, and you cannot
 have two applications running on the same port, in the same time and on
 the same machine.
\layout Itemize

Then press the call button.
 After one second, sipomatic should answer to your call and you should hear
 a short annoncement.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{params}

\end_inset 

Call parameters
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{paramnetwork}

\end_inset 

Network
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{paramrtp}

\end_inset 

RTP
\layout Standard

RTP (Real Time Protocol) is a protocol used to send media streams over networks.
\layout Itemize

RTP port: linphone uses default port 7078 to send and receive audio streams.
 If you think port 7078 is used by another application, change it as you
 want.
\layout Itemize

Jitter compensation: This number represents the number of audio packets
 linphone is waiting for before starting to play them.
 If sometimes some audio packets are late, they have more chance for being
 played.
 Increase this parameter if you hear 'cutted voice' to improve the quality
 of the transmission, but it will increase the delay (you will hear the
 voice of the remote user a few second later).
 On the other hand, if you are using a perfect network, and if you have
 good audio drivers, you can set this parameters down to three packets,
 and so you will have a short delay.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{paramsip}

\end_inset 

SIP
\layout Standard

SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) is a protocol to establish media sessions
 over a network.
 In simpler words, this is the thing that makes the ring at the remote user,
 starts the call and terminates it when one of the two parties hangs up.
\layout Itemize

SIP port: linphone uses default port 5060 to send and receive SIP packets.
 This is higly recommended by SIP 's rfc to use port 5060.
 So don't change this unless you really know what you are doing.
\layout Itemize

Use registrar: toggle this button if you need the services of a remote SIP
 server.
 See section 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Registering on a remote server
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 for details about this.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{paramcodec}

\end_inset 

Codecs
\layout Standard

Codecs are algorithms especially designed to compress voice data.
 For example, digitalised voice in 16bit / 8000 Hz represents a data flow
 of 128 kbits/second.
 Using the GSM codec, this flow is reduced to 13 kbits/second, without significa
nt loss in quality.
 Currenty the best bitrate/quality compromise is achievied by using the
 speex codec.
\layout Itemize

Codec choice: linphone can use several codecs.
 Use buttons on the bottom of the codec list to put them in an order of
 preference.
 Note, that according to your network connection type, some codecs are not
 usable.
 They appear in red and they are not selectable.
 You can decide to use or not a usable codec (in blue) by changing its status
 with the enable/disable buttons on the bottom of the list.
\layout Itemize

Connection type: select here the way you are connected to the network you
 want to use (in most case the internet).
 This help linphone in configuring itself according to the bandwidth of
 your connection type.
 For example some some high-bitrate codecs will be automatically disabled
 if you select 56k modem.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{paramaudio}

\end_inset 

Audio parameters
\layout Standard

In this section you will find parameters related to your sound equipment.
\layout Itemize

Sound card choice: if you have several soundcards on your pc, you can select
 the one to be used by linphone.
\layout Itemize

Source choice: in this combo box you can choose the recording source for
 your voice.
 In most case it will be the microphone (mic).
\layout Section

Address book
\layout Standard

The address book let you store and recall name and sip addresses of people.
 
\layout Standard

When adding a new contact, a little contact box is displayed in where you
 are prompted for information about the person, mainly of course his sip
 address.
 Additionnaly you can toggle the 
\begin_inset Quotes fld
\end_inset 

send subscription
\begin_inset Quotes frd
\end_inset 

 button to ask the person to keep you informed of his online status (ready,
 busy, gone...).
 You can also choose to reject subscription from this person, meaning that
 he will not be informed of your online status.
\layout Section

Using sip proxies and registrar.
\layout Standard

Registering on a SIP server can be usefull in two main cases:
\layout Itemize

Your machine does not have a public domain name, which prevents other users
 to call you as they can't guess your IP address.
 In this case, you can register to a proxy or redirect sip server to get
 a public sip address.
 For example, you are <sip:bob@no-host-name> and let's suppose it exists
 a redirect or proxy sip server at <sip:myserver.org>.
 By registering to <sip:myserver.org>, your friends will be able to call
 you at the address <sip:bob@myserver.org> .
 The proxy or redirect server myserver.org will forward or redirect the calls
 from your friends to your exact location.
\layout Itemize

You are behind a firewall.
 In order for UDP messages (SIP and RTP are on top of UDP) to go through
 the firewall correctly, in most cases a SIP proxy running on the firewall
 machine is necessary.
 You must indicate to linphone the proxy to be used, and tell it that this
 proxy is an outbound proxy (ie all messages must go through it).
\layout Standard

With linphone>=1.0.0 you can choose to use several proxies simultaneously.
 Go to the property box, section sip, and click on add proxy.
 You'll be prompted for proxy address, route and your identity (also known
 as address of record).
 This information should be given to you by your sip provider you registered
 to.
 Route can be optionnal, so leave it empty in case you don't know what to
 put here.
 The identity is the sip address you are known by the proxy.
 Other users on the network are supposed to always be able to find you at
 this sip address.
\layout Section

Behind a firewall
\layout Standard

Linphone is now able to work behind firewalls using a SIP proxy server.
 A SIP proxy server is responsible to forward calls from the private network
 to the external network, and vice versa.
 Two sip proxy based on oSIP library are being developed at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url[http://siproxd.sourceforge.net]{http://siproxd.sourceforge.net}

\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl[http://www.partysip.org]{http://www.partysip.org}

\end_inset 

.
 The setup of each of those sip proxies is outside the scope of this document.
 Please refer to their website.
\layout Standard

There is one case where a sip proxy is not needed: when you are in a network
 where your machine has a public address and the firewall is just here to
 filter incoming and outgoing packets from the external network.
 In this case, all you have to do is to open the SIP port and RTP port on
 the firewall machine.
 The SIP port is given in the property box, section SIP, and the RTP port
 is given in the property box, section RTP.
 Both can be changed, but it es strongly recommended you to let the SIP
 port unchanged (5060).
\layout Section

Problems
\layout Subsection

Connection problems
\layout Subsection

Audio problems
\layout Quotation

Linphone seems to connect to the remote sip url, it rings, but when the
 callee answers, nothing happens and we can't hear each other.
\layout Itemize

First rise up playback and recording level.
\layout Itemize

If the voice is sometines cutted, you can modify parameter RTP->jitter compensat
ion in the property box to greater values to avoid this.
 But it increases the delay transmission.
\layout Itemize

If linphone cannot open the audio device, check if it has the permission
 to open /dev/dsp, close all programs able to use audio device (xmms, kaiman...).
\layout Itemize

Use alsa drivers (see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url[http://www.alsa-project.org]{http://www.alsa-project.org}

\end_inset 

).
 Most distributions still use the old oss kernel-official drivers, that
 have big latency problems and are often buggy.
 ALSA drivers are much better.
 
\layout Section

Bugs reporting and suggestions
\layout Standard

First go to linphone's home page at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url[http://www.linphone.org]{http://www.linphone.org}

\end_inset 

 to check if you have the latest version if linphone.
\layout Standard

If linphone crashes, send a report to the mailing list, linphone-users@nongnu.org.
 If linphone does not work, but does not crash, please ensure you have read
 all this manual before sending me a bug report at the above address.
 If you want to request something, don't hesitate to send me an email to
 the mailing list too.
 Note that video support, and conferencing are planned features.
 If someone is interested in doing translations for linphone, send me a
 xx.po file based on the po/linphone.pot file of the distribution.
 You can also translate this user manual in other languages.
 In any case, please contact me if you want more details.
\layout Section

Authors
\layout Standard

Simon MORLAT (simon.morlat@linphone.org) wrotes: 
\layout Itemize

main library (coreapi)
\layout Itemize

gnome interface (thanks to glade !)
\layout Itemize

RTP library (oRTP)
\layout Itemize

audio/video framework and wrappers (mediastreamer)
\layout Standard

Aymeric Moizard (jack@atosc.org) wrotes the osip and eXosip stacks that is
 used by linphone.
 
\layout Standard

The speex codec 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url[http://www.speex.org]{http://www.speex.org}

\end_inset 

 is a high quality low bitrate codec by Jean Marc Valin.
\layout Standard

The GSM library was written by : Jutta Degener and Carsten Bormann,Technische
 Universitaet Berlin.
\layout Standard

The LPC10-1.5 library was written by: Andy Fingerhut Applied Research Laboratory
 <-- this line is optional if Washington University, Campus Box 1045/Bryan
 509 you have limited space One Brookings Drive Saint Louis, MO 63130-4899
 jaf@arl.wustl.edu http://www.arl.wustl.edu/~jaf/ See text files in gsmlib and
 lpc10-1.5 directories for further information.
\layout Standard

Icons by Pablo Marcelo Moia.
\layout Section

Thanks
\layout Standard

Thanks to Daemon Chaplin, for having done Glade, the gtk interface builder.
\layout Standard

Thanks to Aymeric Moizard, for his famous oSIP library.
\layout Standard

Thanks to Florian Winstertein, for the console interface of linphone.
\layout Standard

Thanks to Jean Marc Valin, for his great speex codec.
\layout Standard

Thanks to the authors of LPC10-1.5 and GSM code.
\layout Standard

Thanks to Joel Barrios ( jbarrios@-NO-SPAM-linuxparatodos.com ) for his RPMS.
\layout Standard

Thanks to Pablo Marcelo Moia for the great icons he has made for linphone.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\the_end
