.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" xmame.6
.\"
.\" Done by René Herrmann <rene.herrmann@berlin.de>, September 2000
.\" Updated by Andrew Burton <burtona@gol.com>, July 2003
.\"
.\" xmame should be distributed under terms of the license in
.\" readme.mame.
.\" The main issue involves ROM images. ROM images are protected under the
.\" copyrights of their authors, and CANNOT be distributed in the same
.\" package as xmame. Download any ROM images at your own risk and
.\" responsibility.
.\"
.TH XMAME 6 2004-04-17 0.82 "xmame"
.SH NAME
xmame \- THE Arcade game machine emulator for UNIX/X
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxmame.\fP{\fBx11\fP,\fBsvga\fP,\fBxgl\fP,\fBsdl\fP}
.RI [\| options \|]
.RI [\| rom \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxmame\fP is the (M)ulti (A)rcade (M)achine (E)mulator for Unix.
It emulates the hardware of many classic arcade game machines.
.PP
MAME is an arcade machine emulator.
Started in 1997 by Nicola Salmoria, MAME started out as a series of emulators
for individual games.
This series of emulators was combined into a single multi-game emulator.
This is the current form of MAME; no longer a one-man show, there are over 100
contributors to the project.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Digital sound related
.TP
.BI \-dp\  plugin ,\ \-dsp-plugin\  plugin
Select which plugin to use for digital sound.
.TP
.B \-ldp, \-list-dsp-plugins
List available sound-dsp plugins.
.TP
.B \-[no]ti, \-[no]timer
Toggle timer based audio (normally it will be used automatically when
necessary).
.SS Sound mixer related
.TP
.BI \-smp\  plugin ,\ \-sound-mixer-plugin\  plugin
Select which plugin to use for the sound mixer.
.TP
.B \-lmp, \-list-mixer-plugins
List available sound-mixer plugins.
.SS Video related
.TP
.BI \-b\  depth ,\ \-bpp\  depth
Specify the colordepth the core should render, one of: \fB0\fP (auto), \fB8\fP,
\fB16\fP.
.TP
.BI \-ah\  height ,\ \-arbheight\  depth
Scale video to exactly this height (0 = disable).
.TP
.BI \-heightscale\  yaspect ,\ \-hs\  yaspect
Set Y-Scale aspect ratio.
.TP
.BI \-ws\  xaspect ,\ \-widthscale\  xaspect
Set X-Scale aspect ratio.
.TP
.BI \-s\  scale ,\ \-scale\  scale
Set X-Y Scale to the same aspect ratio.
For vector games scale (and also width- and height-scale) may have values like
1.5 and even 0.5.
For scaling of regular games this will be rounded to an integer value.
.TP
.BI \-ef\  effect ,\ \-effect\  effect
Video effect:
.RS
.IP \fB0\fP 3
none (default)
.IP \fB1\fP 3
scale2x (smooth scaling effect)
.IP \fB2\fP 3
scan2 (light scanlines)
.IP \fB3\fP 3
rgbstripe (3x2 rgb vertical stripes)
.IP \fB4\fP 3
rgbscan (2x3 rgb horizontal scanlines)
.IP \fB5\fP 3
scan3 (3x3 deluxe scanlines)
.RE
.TP
.B \-[no]adb, \-[no]autodouble
Enable/disable automatic scale doubling for 1:2 pixel aspect ratio games.
.TP
.B \-[no]sl, \-[no]scanlines
Enable/disable displaying simulated scanlines.
.TP
.B \-[no]art, \-[no]artwork
Use additional game artwork (sets default for specific options below).
.TP
.B \-[no]backdrop, \-[no]use_backdrops
Use backdrop artwork.
.TP
.B \-[no]overlay, \-[no]use_overlays
Use overlay artwork.
.TP
.B \-[no]bezel, \-[no]use_bezels
Use bezel artwork.
.TP
.B \-[no]artcrop, \-[no]artwork_crop
Crop artwork to game screen only.
.TP
.BI \-artres\  res ,\ \-artwork_resolution\  res
Artwork resolution (0 for auto)
.TP
.BI \-fsr\  skip ,\ \-frameskipper\  skip
Select which autoframeskip and throttle routines to use.
Available choices are:
.RS
.IP \fB0\fP 3
DOS frameskip code
.IP \fB1\fP 3
Enhanced frameskip code by William A. Barath
.RE
.TP
.B \-[no]th, \-[no]throttle
Enable/disable throttle.
.TP
.BI \-ftr\  frames ,\ \-frames_to_run\  frames
Sets the number of frames to run within the game.
.TP
.B \-[no]si, \-[no]sleepidle
Enable/disable sleep during idle.
.TP
.B \-[no]afs, \-[no]autoframeskip
Enable/disable autoframeskip.
.TP
.BI \-mafs\  maxskip ,\ \-maxautoframeskip\  maxskip
Set highest allowed frameskip for autoframeskip.
.TP
.BI \-fs\  skip ,\ \-frameskip\  skip
Set frameskip when not using autoframeskip.
.TP
.BI \-brt\  brightness ,\ \-brightness\  brightness
Set the brightness correction (0.5 - 2.0).
.TP
.BI \-pb\  pause ,\ \-pause_brightness\  pause
Additional pause brightness (float).
.TP
.BI \-gc\  gamma ,\ \-gamma\  gamma
Set the gamma correction (0.5 - 2.0).
.TP
.B \-[no]nr, \-[no]norotate
Do not apply rotation.
.TP
.B \-[no]rr, \-[no]ror
Rotate screen clockwise.
.TP
.B \-[no]rl, \-[no]rol
Rotate screen counter-clockwise.
.TP
.B \-[no]autoror
Automatically rotate screen clockwise for vertical games.
.TP
.B \-[no]autorol
Automatically rotate screen counter-clockwise for vertical games.
.TP
.B \-[no]fx, \-[no]flipx
Flip screen left-right.
.TP
.B \-[no]fy, \-[no]flipy
Flip screen upside-down.
.SS Vector related
.TP
.BI \-vres\  vres ,\ \-vectorres\  vres
Always scale vectorgames to XresxYres, keeping their aspect ratio.
This overrides the scale options.
.TP
.BI \-B\  beam ,\ \-beam\  beam
Set the beam size for vector games (float).
.TP
.BI \-f\  flicker ,\ \-flicker\  flicker
Set the flicker size for vector games (float).
.TP
.BI \-intensity\  intensity
Set intensity in vector games (float).
.TP
.B \-[no]aa, \-[no]antialias
Enable/disable antialiasing.
.TP
.B \-[no]t, \-[no]translucency
Enable/disable translucency.
.SS X11 related
.TP
.BI \-x11\  mode ,\ \-x11-mode
Select x11 video mode (if compiled in).
.RS
.IP \fB0\fP 3
Normal window (hotkey left-alt + insert)
.IP \fB1\fP 3
Fullscreen DGA (hotkey left-alt + home)
.IP \fB2\fP 3
Windowed Xv
.IP \fB3\fP 3
Fullscreen Xv
.RE
.SS X11-window related
.TP
.B \-[no]cu, \-[no]cursor
Show/don't show the cursor.
.TP
.B \-[no]ms, \-[no]mitshm
Use/don't use the MIT shared memory extension (if available and compiled in).
.TP
.B \-[no]fullscreen
Start in fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B \-[no]yuv
Force YUV mode (for video cards with broken RGB hwscales).
.TP
.B \-[no]yv12
Force YV12 mode (for video cards with broken RGB hwscales).
.TP
.B \-[no]xs, \-[no]xsync
Use/don't use \fBXSync\fP instead of \fBXFlush\fP as screen refresh method.
.TP
.B \-[no]p, \-[no]privatecmap
Enable/disable use of private color map.
.TP
.B \-[no]x, \-[no]xil
Enable/disable use of XIL for scaling (if available and compiled in).
.TP
.B \-[no]mtx, \-[no]mtxil
Enable/disable multi threading of XIL.
.TP
.B \-[no]root, \-[no]run-in-root-window
Enable/disable running in root window.
.TP
.BI \-rid\  window ,\ \-root_window_id\  window
Create the xmame-window in an alternate root-window, mostly useful for
frontends.
.TP
.BI \-geometry\  location ,\ \-geo\  location
Specify the location of the window (string).
.SS Video mode selection related
.TP
.B \-[no]ka, \-[no]keepaspect
Try / don't try to keep the aspect ratio of a game when selecting the best
videomode.
.TP
.BI \-dar\  ratio ,\ \-displayaspectratio\  ratio
Set the display aspect ratio of your monitor (float).
This is used for \fB\-keepaspect\fP.
The default is 1.33 (4/3).
Use 0.75 (3/4) for a portrait monitor.
.TP
.BI \-dm\  disable ,\ \-disablemode\  disable
Don't use mode XRESxYRESxDEPTH.
This can be used to disable specific video modes which don't work on your
system.
The xDEPTH part of the string is optional.
This option may be used more then once
.SS X11-input related
.TP
.B \-[no]gm, \-[no]grabmouse
Enable/disable mouse grabbing (also alt + pagedown).
.TP
.B \-[no]gkb, \-[no]grabkeyboard
Enable/disable keyboard grabbing (also alt + pageup).
.TP
.B \-[no]wk, \-[no]winkeys
Enable/disable mapping of Windows keys under X.
.TP
.BI \-mk\  keymap ,\ \-mapkey\  keymap
Set a specific key mapping, see \fBxmamerc.dist\fP.
.SS Sound related
.TP
.B \-[no]snd, \-[no]sound
Enable/disable sound (if available).
.TP
.B \-[no]sam, \-[no]samples
Use/don't use samples (if available).
.TP
.B \-fsnd, \-fakesound
Generate sound even when sound is disabled. This is needed for some games which
won't run without sound.
.TP
.BI \-sf\  freq ,\ \-samplefreq\  freq
Set the playback sample-frequency/rate.
.TP
.BI \-bs\  buffer ,\ \-bufsize\  buffer
Number of frames of sound to buffer (float).
.TP
.BI \-v\  volume ,\ \-volume\  volume
Specify audio attenuation in dB (-32 (soft) - 0 (loud)).
.TP
.BI \-ad\  device ,\ \-audiodevice\  device
Use an alternative audiodevice.
.TP
.BI \-md\  mixer ,\ \-mixerdevice\  mixer
Use an alternative mixerdevice.
.SS Input related
.TP
.BI \-jt\  joy ,\ \-joytype\  joy
Select type of joystick support to use:
.RS
.IP \fB0\fP 3
No joystick
.IP \fB1\fP 3
Standard joystick
.IP \fB2\fP 3
FM Towns pad
.IP \fB3\fP 3
NetBSD/FreeBSD USB joystick
.IP \fB4\fP 3
PS2-Linux native pad
.IP \fB5\fP 3
SDL joystick
.RE
.TP
.B \-[no]as, \-[no]analogstick
Use joystick as analog for analog controls.
.TP
.BI \-jdev\  device ,\ \-joydevname\  device
Joystick device prefix (defaults to /dev/js).
.TP
.B \-[no]m, \-[no]mouse
Enable/disable mouse (if supported).
.TP
.B \-[no]ugcicoin
Enable/disable UGCI(tm) Coin/Play support.
.TP
.B \-[no]pspad, \-[no]usbpspad
Enable/disable USB PS Game Pad joystick support.
.TP
.B \-[no]rapidf, \-[no]rapidfire
Enable/disable rapid-fire support for joysticks.
.TP
.BI \-ctrlr\  controller
Preconfigure for specified controller, e.g., HotRod, HotRodSE, SlikStik,
XArcade.
.SS File I/O related
.TP
.BI \-rp\  rompath ,\ \-rompath\  rompath
Search path for ROM files.
.TP
.BI \-sp\  samplepath ,\ \-samplepath\  samplepath
Search path for sample files.
.TP
.BI \-inipath\ inipath
Search path for ini files.
.TP
.BI \-cfg_directory\  cfgpath
Directory to save configurations.
.TP
.BI \-nvram_directory\  nvrampath
Directory to save nvram contents.
.TP
.BI \-memcard_directory\  memcardpath
Directory to save memory card contents.
.TP
.BI \-input_directory\  inputpath
Directory to save input device logs.
.TP
.BI \-hiscore_directory\  hipath
Directory to save hiscores.
.TP
.BI \-state_directory\  statepath
Directory to save states.
.TP
.BI \-artwork_directory\  artpath
Directory for artwork (overlays etc.)
.TP
.BI \-snapshot_directory\  screenshotpath
Directory for screenshots (PNG format).
.TP
.BI \-diff_directory\  diffpath
Directory for hard drive image difference files.
.TP
.BI \-ctrlr_directory\  controllerpath
Directory to save controller definitions.
.TP
.BI \-cheat_file\  cheatfile
Cheat filename.
.TP
.BI \-hiscore_file\  hifile
.TP
.BI \-history_file\  historyfile
.TP
.BI \-mameinfo_file\  mameinfofile
.TP
.BI \-rec\  keyfile ,\ \-record\  keyfile
Set a file to record keypresses into.
.TP
.BI \-pb\  playfile ,\ \-playback\  playfile
Set a file to playback keypresses from.
.TP
.BI \-out\  stdout ,\ \-stdout\-file\  stdout
Set a file to redirect stdout to
.TP
.BI \-err\  stderr ,\ \-stderr\-file\  stderr
Set a file to redirect stderr to.
.TP
.BI \-L\  logfile ,\ \-log\  logfile
Set a file to log debug info to.
.SS MAME related
.TP
.BI \-def\  defaultgame ,\ \-defaultgame\  defaultgame
Set the default game started when no game is given on the commandline, only
useful for the config files.
.TP
.BI \-lang\  language ,\ \-language\  language
Select the language for the menus and OSD.
.TP
.B \-[no]fc, \-[no]fuzzycmp
Enable/disable use of fuzzy gamename matching when there is no exact match.
.TP
.B \-[no]c, \-[no]cheat
Enable/disable cheat subsystem.
.TP
.B \-[no]skip_disclaimer
Skip displaying the disclaimer screen.
.TP
.B \-[no]skip_gameinfo
Skip displaying the game info screen.
.TP
.B \-[no]crconly
Use only CRC for all integrity checks.
.TP
.BI \-bios\  bios
Change system bios (int).
.SS Frontend related
.TP
.B \-l, \-list
List supported games matching gamename, or all, gamename may contain * and ?
wildcards.
.TP
.B \-lf, \-listfull
Like \fB\-list\fP, with full description.
.TP
.B \-lg, \-listgames
Like \fB\-list\fP, with manufacturer and year.
.TP
.B \-ld, \-listdetails
Like \fB\-list\fP, with detailed info.
.TP
.B \-lgl, \-listgamelist
Like \fB\-list\fP, with specially formatted extra info for generating
gamelist.mame.
.TP
.B \-lsf, \-listsourcefile
Like \fB\-list\fP, with driver sourcefile.
.TP
.B \-lcol, \-listcolors
Like \fB\-list\fP, with the number of colors used.
.TP
.B \-lrs, \-listromsize
Like \fB\-list\fP, with the year and size of the ROMs used.
.TP
.B \-lps, \-listpalettesize
Like \fB\-list\fP, with the year and palette size of the roms used.
.TP
.B \-lr, \-listroms
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists used ROMs.
.TP
.B \-lcrc, \-listcrc
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists used ROMs with CRC-32s.
.TP
.B \-lsha1, \-listsha1
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists used ROMs with SHA-1s.
.TP
.B \-lmd5, \-listmd5
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists used ROMs with MD5s.
.TP
.B \-ls, \-listsamples
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists used audio samples.
.TP
.B \-lsd, \-listsamdir
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists dir where samples are taken from.
.TP
.B \-vr, \-verifyroms
Verify ROMs for games matching gamename, or all, gamename may contain * and ?
wildcards.
.TP
.B \-vrs, \-verifyromsets
Like \fB\-verifyroms\P, but less verbose.
.TP
.B \-vs, \-verifysamples
Like \fB\-verifyroms\fP but verify audio samples instead.
.TP
.B \-vss, \-verifysamplesets
Like \fB\-verifysamples\P, but less verbose
.TP
.B \-[no]cl, \-[no]clones
Show / don't show bootlegs/clones in the above list commands.
.TP
.B \-lcl, \-listclones
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists the clones of the specified game.
.TP
.B \-li, \-listinfo
List all available info on drivers.
.TP
.B \-lc, \-listcpu
List CPU usage statics per year.
.SS Internal verification list commands (only for developers)
.TP
.B \-ldc, \-listdupcrc
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists ROMs with identical CRC.
.TP
.B \-lwo, \-listwrongorientation
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists any games which use the orientation flags wrongly.
.TP
.B \-lwm, \-listwrongmerge
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists any games which use the clone_of field wrongly.
.TP
.B \-lwf, \-listwrongfps
Like \fB\-list\fP, but lists any games which use the FPS field wrongly.
.TP
.B \-srtn, \-sortname
Sort ROMs by name.
.TP
.B \-srtd, \-sortdriver
Sort ROMs by driver name.
.SS ROM identification related
.TP
.B \-id, \-ident
Identify unknown ROM dump, or unknown ROM dumps in dir/zip.
.TP
.B \-ik, \-isknown
Check if romdump or romdumps in dir/zip are known.
.SS General options
.TP
.B \-[no]lcf, \-[no]loadconfig
Enable/disable loading of config files.
.TP
.B \-sc, \-showconfig
Display running parameters in rc style.
.TP
.B \-mh, \-manhelp
Print commandline help in man format, useful for manpage creation.
.TP
.B \-V, \-version
Display version.
.TP
.B \-?, \-help
Show help.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SH LEGAL NOTICE
The main issue involves ROM images.
ROM images are protected under the copyrights of their authors, and CANNOT be
distributed in the same package as xmame.
Download any ROM images at your own risk and responsibility.
.PP
\fBPLEASE BE AWARE OF THE POSSIBLE LEGAL RAMIFICATIONS OF DOWNLOADING ROM
IMAGES, BEFORE YOU ACTUALLY DO SO!
YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED, AND WE TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR YOUR ACTIONS -- YOU ARE
ON YOUR OWN!\fP
.PP
Also, the \fBxmame\fP authors ask that you DO NOT distribute any ROM images
with either source code or binaries of the \fBxmame\fR emulator.
.SH FILES
Config Files are parsed in the following order:
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/xmame/xmamerc
Global configuration config file
.TP
.B ${HOME}/.xmame/xmamerc
User configuration config file
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/xmame/xmame-x11rc
Global per display method config file
.TP
.B ${HOME}/.xmame/xmame-x11rc
User per display method config file
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/xmame/rc/<game>rc
Global per game config file
.TP
.B ${HOME}/.xmame/rc/<game>rc
User per game config file
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH BUGS
