\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename inetutils.info
@settitle GNU networking utilities
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@c Define new indices for file names and options.
@defcodeindex fl
@defcodeindex op

@c Put everything in one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@syncodeindex fl cp
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex op cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex vr cp

@set Francois Fran@,{c}ois

@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* networking(inet) utilities: (inetutils).      GNU networking utilities.
* ftp: (inetutils)ftp invocation.               File Transfer Protocol.
* ftpd: (inetutils)ftpd invocation.             FTP Daemon.
* inetd: (inetutils)inetd invocation.           Interner super-server.
* ping: (inetutils)ping invocation.             Packets to network hosts.
* rcp: (inetutils)rcp invocation.               Strip non-directory suffix.
* rexecd: (inetutils)rexecd invocation.         Remote execution server.
* rlogin: (inetutils)rlogin invocation.         Remote login.
* rlogind: (inetutils)rlogind invocation.       Remote login server.
* rsh: (inetutils)rsh invocation.               Remote shell.
* rshd: (inetutils)rshd invocation.             Remote shell server.
* logger: (inetutils)logger invocation.         Logger.
* syslogd: (inetutils)syslogd invocation.       Syslog server.
* talk: (inetutils)talk invocation.             Talk client.
* talkd: (inetutils)talkd invocation.           Talk server.
@c * telnet: (inetutils)telnet invocation.         User interface to TELNET.
@c * telnetd: (inetutils)telnetd invocation.       Telnet server.
* tftp: (inetutils)tftp invocation.             Trivial FTP.
@c * tftpd: (inetutils)tftpd invocation.           TFTP server.
@c * uucpd: (inetutils)uucpd invocation.           Unix to Unix Copy.
@c * whois: (inetutils)whois invocation.           Whois user interface.
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
This file documents the GNU networking utilities.

Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title GNU @code{inetutils}
@subtitle A set of networking utilities
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Alain Magloire et al.

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1994, 95, 96, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end titlepage


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GNU networking utilities

@cindex networking utilities

This manual documents version @value{VERSION} of the GNU network utilities.

@menu
* Introduction::                Caveats, overview, and authors.
* ftp::                         File Transfer Protocol.
* ftpd::                        FTP Daemon.
* inetd::                       Interner super-server.
* ping::                        Packets to network hosts.
* rcp::                         Strip non-directory suffix.
* rexecd::                      Remote execution server.
* rlogin::                      Remote login.
* rlogind::                     Remote login server.
* rsh::                         Remote shell.
* rshd::                        Remote shell server.
* logger::                      Logger.
* syslogd::                     Syslog server.
* talk::                        Talk client.
* talkd::                       Talk server.
@c * telnet::                      User interface to TELNET.
@c * telnetd::                     Telnet server.
* tftp::                        Trivial FTP.
@c * tftpd::                       TFTP server.
@c * uucpd::                       Unix to Unix Copy.
@c * whois::                       Whois user interface.
* Reporting Bugs::              How to report bugs.
* Concept Index::               Index of concepts.
* Index::                       Index of commands, options and variables.
@end menu
@end ifnottex


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

The individual utilities was originally derived from the 4.4BSDLite2
distribution.  Many features were integrated from NetBSD, OpenBSD,
FreeBSD and GNU/Linux, the merges were done by a group of dedicated
hackers (in no particular order): Jeff Bailey, Marcus Brinkmann,
Michael Vogt, Bernhard Rosenkraenzer, Kaveh R. Ghazi, NIIBE Yutaka,
Nathan Neulinger, Jeff Smith, Dan Stromberg, David O'Shea, Frederic
Goudal, Gerald Combs, Joachim Gabler, Marco D'Itri.

Certain options are available in all these programs.  Rather than
writing identical descriptions for each of the programs, they are
described here.  (In fact, every GNU program accepts (or should
accept) these options.)

Many of these programs take arbitrary strings as arguments.  In those
cases, @samp{--help} and @samp{--version} are taken as these options
only if there is one and exactly one command line argument.

@table @samp
@item --help
@opindex --help
@cindex help, online
Print a usage message listing all available options, then exit
successfully.

@item -V
@itemx --version
@opindex --version
@cindex version number, finding
Print the version number, then exit successfully.
@end table


@include ftp.texi
@include ftpd.texi
@include inetd.texi
@include ping.texi
@include rcp.texi
@include rexecd.texi
@include rlogin.texi
@include rlogind.texi
@include rsh.texi
@include rshd.texi
@include logger.texi
@include syslogd.texi
@include talk.texi
@include talkd.texi
@c @include telnet.texi
@c @include telnetd.texi
@include tftp.texi
@c @include tftpd.texi
@c @include uucpd.texi
@c @include whois.texi


@node Reporting Bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs
@cindex Bugs, reporting

Email bug reports to @email{bug-inetutils@@gnu.org}.  Be sure to
include the word ``inetutils'' somewhere in the ``Subject:'' field.

@table @samp
@item @command{syslogd}
     The effects of multiple selectors are sometimes not intuitive.  For exam-
     ple ``mail.crit,*.err'' will select ``mail'' facility messages at the
     level of ``err'' or higher, not at the level of ``crit'' or higher.
@end table

@page
@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

This is a general index of all issues discussed in this manual, with the
exception of the commands and command-line options.

@printindex cp

@page
@node Index
@unnumbered Index

This is an alphabetical list of all commands, command-line
options, and environment variables.

@printindex fn

@contents
@bye
