@node inetd
@chapter inetd
@cindex inetd

@command{Inetd} program should be run at boot time by /etc/rc (see rc(8)).
It then listens for connections on certain internet sockets.  When a
connection is found on one of its sockets, it decides what service the socket
corresponds to, and invokes a program to service the request.  The server
program is invoked with the service socket as its standard input, output
and error descriptors.  After the program is finished, inetd continues to
listen on the socket (except in some cases which will be described below).
Essentially, inetd allows running one daemon to invoke several others,
reducing load on the system.

@section Invoking

The options are as follows:

@table @samp
@item -d
@itemx --debug
@opindex -d
@opindex --debug
Turns on debugging.

@item -R @var{RATE}
@itemx --rate=@var{RATE}
@opindex --r
@opindex --rate
Specifies the maximum number of times a service can be invoked in
one minute; the default is 1000.

@end table

@section Configuration file

Upon execution, inetd reads its configuration information from a configuration
pathnames on the command line, by default, @file{/etc/inetd.conf} and
@file{/etc/initd.d}.  If the configuration pathname is a directory, all the
files in the directory are read like a configuration file. All of the
configuration files are read and merged.  There must be an entry for each
field in the configuration file, with entries for each field separated by a
tab or a space.  Comments are denoted by a ``#'' at the beginning of a line.
There must be an entry for each field.  The fields of the configuration
file are as follows:

@example
           service name
           socket type
           protocol
           wait/nowait
           user
           server program
           server program arguments
@end example

There are two types of services that inetd can start: standard and TCPMUX.
A standard service has a well-known port assigned to it; it may be
a service that implements an official Internet standard or is a BSD-specific
service.  As described in RFC 1078, TCPMUX services are nonstandard
services that do not have a well-known port assigned to them.  They are
invoked from inetd when a program connects to the ``tcpmux'' well-known
port and specifies the service name.  This feature is useful for adding
locally-developed servers.

The service-name entry is the name of a valid service in the file
@file{/etc/services}. For ``internal'' services (discussed below), the service
name must be the official name of the service (that is, the first entry
in @file{/etc/services}). For TCPMUX services, the value of the service-name
field consists of the string ``tcpmux'' followed by a slash and the
locally-chosen service name.  The service names listed in /etc/services and
the name ``help'' are reserved.  Try to choose unique names for your TCPMUX
services by prefixing them with your organization's name and suffixing them
with a version number.

The socket-type should be one of ``stream'', ``dgram'', ``raw'', ``rdm'',
or ``seqpacket'', depending on whether the socket is a stream, datagram,
raw, reliably delivered message, or sequenced packet socket.  TCPMUX services
must use ``stream''.

The protocol must be a valid protocol as given in /etc/protocols. Examples
might be ``tcp'' or ``udp''. TCPMUX services must use ``tcp''.

The wait/nowait entry specifies whether the server that is invoked by inetd
will take over the socket associated with the service access point,
and thus whether inetd should wait for the server to exit before listening
for new service requests.  Datagram servers must use ``wait'', as
they are always invoked with the original datagram socket bound to the
specified service address.  These servers must read at least one datagram
from the socket before exiting.  If a datagram server connects to its
peer, freeing the socket so inetd can received further messages on the
socket, it is said to be a ``multi-threaded'' server; it should read one
datagram from the socket and create a new socket connected to the peer.
It should fork, and the parent should then exit to allow inetd to check
for new service requests to spawn new servers.  Datagram servers which
process all incoming datagrams on a socket and eventually time out are
said to be ``single-threaded''. Comsat(8),  (biff(1))  and talkd(8) are
both examples of the latter type of datagram server.  Tftpd(8) is an example
of a multi-threaded datagram server.

Servers using stream sockets generally are multi-threaded and use the
``nowait'' entry.  Connection requests for these services are accepted by
inetd, and the server is given only the newly-accepted socket connected
to a client of the service.  Most stream-based services operate in this
manner.  Stream-based servers that use ``wait'' are started with the
listening service socket, and must accept at least one connection request
before exiting.  Such a server would normally accept and process incoming
connection requests until a timeout.  TCPMUX services must use ``nowait''.

The user entry should contain the user name of the user as whom the server
should run.  This allows for servers to be given less permission than root.

The server-program entry should contain the pathname of the program which
is to be executed by inetd when a request is found on its socket.  If
inetd provides this service internally, this entry should be ``internal''.

The server program arguments should be just as arguments normally are,
starting with argv[0], which is the name of the program.  If the service
is provided internally, the word ``internal'' should take the place of
this entry.

The inetd program provides several ``trivial'' services internally by use
of routines within itself.  These services are ``echo'', ``discard'',
``chargen'' (character generator), ``daytime'' (human readable time), and
``time'' (machine readable time, in the form of the number of seconds
since midnight, January 1, 1900).  All of these services are tcp based.
For details of these services, consult the appropriate RFC from the Network
Information Center.

The inetd program rereads its configuration file when it receives a
hangup signal, SIGHUP. Services may be added, deleted or modified when
the configuration file is reread.

@section TCPMUX
RFC 1078 describes the TCPMUX protocol: ``A TCP client connects to a foreign
host on TCP port 1.  It sends the service name followed by a carriage-return
line-feed <CRLF>.  The service name is never case sensitive.
The server replies with a single character indicating positive (+) or
negative (-) acknowledgment, immediately followed by an optional message
of explanation, terminated with a <CRLF>.  If the reply was positive, the
selected protocol begins; otherwise the connection is closed.''  The program
is passed the TCP connection as file descriptors 0 and 1.

If the TCPMUX service name begins with a ``+'', inetd returns the positive
reply for the program.  This allows you to invoke programs that use
stdin/stdout without putting any special server code in them.

The special service name ``help'' causes inetd to list TCPMUX services in
@file{inetd.conf}.

@example
Here are several example service entries for the various types of
services:

ftp           stream  tcp   nowait root  /usr/libexec/ftpd       ftpd -l
ntalk         dgram   udp   wait   root  /usr/libexec/ntalkd     ntalkd
tcpmux/+date  stream  tcp   nowait guest /bin/date               date
tcpmux/phonebook stream tcp nowait guest /usr/bin/phonebook   phonebook
@end example

@section Error Messages
The inetd server logs error messages using syslog(3).  Important error
messages and their explanations are:

@table @samp

@item service/protocol server failing (looping), service terminated.
The number of requests for the specified service in the past minute exceeded
the limit. The limit exists to prevent a broken program or a malicious user
from swamping the system.  This message may occur for several reasons: 1)
there are lots of hosts requesting the service within a short time period, 2)
a 'broken' client program is requesting the service too frequently, 3) a
malicious user is running a program to invoke the service in a 'denial of
service' attack, or 4) the invoked service program has an error that causes
clients to retry quickly.  Use the [-R] option, as described above, to change
the rate limit.  Once the limit is reached, the service will be reenabled
automatically in 10 minutes.

@item service/protocol: No such user 'user', service ignored
@itemx service/protocol: getpwnam: user: No such user
No entry for user exists in the passwd file. The first message occurs
when inetd (re)reads the configuration file. The second message occurs
when the service is invoked.
the service will be reenabled automatically in 10 minutes.

@item service/protocol: No such user 'user', service ignored
@itemx service/protocol: getpwnam: user: No such user
No entry for user exists in the passwd file. The first message occurs
when inetd (re)reads the configuration file. The second message occurs
when the service is invoked.


@item service: can't set uid number
@itemx service: can't set gid number
The user or group ID for the entry's user is invalid.

@end table
