@node rcp
@chapter rcp
@cindex rcp

@command{Rcp} copies files between machines.  Each file or directory
argument is either a remote file name of the form ``rname@@rhost:path'',
or a local file name (containing no `:' characters, or a `/' before any `:'s).

@section Invoking

The options are as follows :

@table @samp

@item -K
@itemx --kerberos
@opindex -K
@opindex --kerberos
Turns off all Kerberos authentication.

@item -k
@itemx --realm=REALM
@opindex -k
@opindex --realm
The option requests rcp to obtain tickets for the remote host in REALM
realm instead of the remote host's realm as determined by krb_realmofhost(3).

@item -p
@itemx --preserve
@opindex -p
@opindex --preserve
Causes rcp to attempt to preserve (duplicate) in its copies the modification
times and modes of the source files, ignoring the umask. By default, the
mode and owner of file2 are preserved if it already existed; otherwise the
mode of the source file modified by the umask(2) on the destination host is
used.

@item -r
@itemx --recursive
@opindex -r
@opindex --recursive
If any of the source files are directories, rcp copies each subtree
rooted at that name; in this case the destination must be a directory.

@item -x
@itemx --encrypt
@opindex -x
@opindex --encrypt
Turns on DES encryption for all data passed via the rcp session.  This may
impact response time and CPU utilization, but provides increased security.


@end table

@command{rcp} doesn't detect all cases where the target of a copy might be
a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.

Is confused by any output generated by commands in a .login, .profile, or
.cshrc file on the remote host.

The destination user and hostname may have to be specified as
``rhost.rname'' when the destination machine is running the 4.2BSD version
of @command{rcp}.
